The illusion of make money with internet
February 2026

"How to make money with internet". You probably heard this phrase daily. This is the trend of the current days, the advertisement in every social media. But, "make money" isn't the problem, neither using internet for it. Let me explain.

Nowadays, there are thousand ways of make money, whether trough a formal job or a selling our services. The internet, in this case, is presented in two ways: a opportunity to be our main income source, or a tool to amplify of gains in the two forms previously mentioned. The problem I observed is the limited idea that is necessary to have strong digital presence to hit a bigger income. This belief grew stronger in the last years, what leads to make the phrase that starts this text more commom.

I fell in this trap. I thought that I needed a digital product to achieve a greater income. From hearing this preach too much, I became a believer of this ideology. This changed minutes before I start writting this reflexion.

I stopped to analyze cases of well succedeed people with higher incomes, and then I realize that extreme online presense isn't the pattern, but the excellence and mastery in what their do. I'm not neither condemning or denying the benefits of marketing digital, I'm just bring to the front of the stage, the true responsible for a valuable career (or business): a good reputation based on well developed skills.

Doctors, lawers, painters, carpenters, between other professionals, before creating a good reputation on social media, they have a good reputation in practice, with real results. A Instagram profile come in as a tool to leverage their services. The old generations seems to understand that. But, I notice a different scenario in the young generations, including mine. Based on what I observe, it's occurring the inversion of the priorities: first an good social media profile, then the technical maestry.

This change reflects in the course that the young people takes. The main goal is understand the algorithm and increase the engagement, leaving the skills training aside.

Let me use examples from the fictional world. Personally, I can't imagine Harvey Specter or Sherlock Holmes depending on algorithms or marketing to live in our current society. Both would use their own exceptional skills and authority to be well succeded.

Concluding my reasoning, I'm don't believe that a young person, in the beginning of the career should worry about to "be someone" in internet before "be someone" in real life. I'll end with this thought: You don't nned to be a influencer to be a well succeed professional.
